действие     [uncountable]  the process of doing something in order to make something happen or to deal with a situation [countable] a thing that somebody does     И каждое [....], которое совершает игрок, включает в себя определенный тип физического [....].	действие    Divers were close at hand, ready to go into action if the stunt went wrong.What is the best course of action in the circumstances?She began to explain her plan of action to the group   Synonims measure ▪ step ▪ act ▪ move
action   [uncountable]  the process of doing something in order to make something happen or to deal with a situation [countable] a thing that somebody does    Divers were close at hand, ready to go into [...] if the stunt went wrong. She began to explain her plan of [...] to the group	action     действие    Divers were close at hand, ready to go into action if the stunt went wrong.What is the best course of action in the circumstances?She began to explain her plan of action to the group       Synonims measure ▪ step ▪ act ▪ move
над     at or to a higher place or position than something/somebody more than something; greater in number, level or age than     Теперь представьте себе, что вы возноситесь вверх и поднимаетесь [...] всей Вселенной.	над     Now imagine going up above the Universe. Anything above these numbers is hypertension.    Synonims
above    at or to a higher place or position than something/somebody more than something; greater in number, level or age than     Now imagine going up [...] the Universe. Anything [...] these numbers is hypertension.	above      над     Now imagine going up above the Universe. Anything above these numbers is hypertension.        Synonims
взрослый     a fully grown person who is legally responsible for their actions    По меньшей мере один [...] должен принимать участие в курсе.	взрослый    Children must be accompanied by an adult.I simply can't believe that responsible adults allowed a child to wander the streets.Why can't you two act like civilized adults?The obesity rate among adults has actually increased.   Synonims  grown-up
adult    a fully grown person who is legally responsible for their actions    Children must be accompanied by an [..].At least one [...] must be present.	adult      взрослый    Children must be accompanied by an adult.I simply can't believe that responsible adults allowed a child to wander the streets.Why can't you two act like civilized adults?The obesity rate among adults has actually increased.       Synonims  grown-up
совет     an opinion or a suggestion about what somebody should do in a particular situation    Все, что мне нужно, - это [...] по инвестированию, а не [...] личного характера».	совет    Let me give you a piece of advice.A word of advice. Don't wear that dress.Take my advice. Don't do it.Follow your doctor's advice.   Synonims
advice    an opinion or a suggestion about what somebody should do in a particular situation     John would welcome any [...] or clues. Definitely ask their [...] and opinions.	advice      совет    Let me give you a piece of advice.A word of advice. Don't wear that dress.Take my advice. Don't do it.Follow your doctor's advice.       Synonims
боюсь     feeling fear; frightened because you think that you might be hurt or suffer worried about what might happen    Я [...], что вслед за ним ты наживешь себе неприятностей.	боюсь    I'm afraid you'd follow him into trouble. He had always been afraid of death.They know I'm afraid of heights.Are you afraid of spiders?She was afraid of upsetting her parents    Synonims
afraid    feeling fear; frightened because you think that you might be hurt or suffer worried about what might happen    Are you [...] of spiders? They know I'm [...] of heights. She was [...] of upsetting her parents	afraid      боюсь    I'm afraid you'd follow him into trouble. He had always been afraid of death.They know I'm afraid of heights.Are you afraid of spiders?She was afraid of upsetting her parents        Synonims
потрясающий     very surprising, especially in a way that you like or admire    Ана, у тебя были [....] отзывы, когда мы выступали в даунтауне.	потрясающий    Ana, you got amazing reviews downtown. It's amazing how quickly people adapt. He makes the most amazing cakes   Synonims fantastic astonishing, astounding, incredible
amazing   very surprising, especially in a way that you like or admire    Ana, you got [...] reviews downtown. It's [...] how quickly people adapt. He makes the most [....] cakes	amazing     потрясающий    Ana, you got amazing reviews downtown. It's amazing how quickly people adapt. He makes the most amazing cakes       Synonims fantastic astonishing, astounding, incredible
регион, местность, участок      [countable]  part of a place, town, etc., or a region of a country or the world    К ним относятся и ----- съемки, и ----- проведения работ.	регион, местность, участок    Ted has lived in this area all his life.People who live in remote areas of the country may not have access to electricity.A lot of new people have moved into the area recently.John is the London area manager.   Synonims place
area     [countable]  part of a place, town, etc., or a region of a country or the world    Ted has lived in this [..] all his life A lot of new people have moved into the [...] recently.	area      регион, местность, участок    Ted has lived in this area all his life.People who live in remote areas of the country may not have access to electricity.A lot of new people have moved into the area recently.John is the London area manager.       Synonims place
рука     part of body    Ведь описываешь то, что чувствует твоя ----.	рука    She touched him gently on the arm. Vincent folded his arms across his chest and turned to walk away.He has a tattoo on his upper right arm.    Synonims
arm    part of body    She touched him gently on the -----. Vincent folded his ------ across his chest and turned to walk away.	arm      рука    She touched him gently on the arm. Vincent folded his arms across his chest and turned to walk away.He has a tattoo on his upper right arm.        Synonims
статья     a piece of writing about a particular subject in a newspaper or magazine, on a website, etc.    В комментарии к этой ------- поясняется, что ------ 57 представляет собой исключающую оговорку	статья    Her tweet follows an article posted online by the ‘Huffington Post’.   Synonims
article    a piece of writing about a particular subject in a newspaper or magazine, on a website, etc.    Her tweet follows an ----- posted online by the ‘Huffington Post’.	article      статья    Her tweet follows an article posted online by the ‘Huffington Post’.       Synonims
далеко     to or at a distance from somebody/something in space or time    Прежде всего, держите детей и домашних животных ------ от рабочей зоны.	далеко    The beach is a mile away.Christmas is still months away.   Synonims
away    to or at a distance from somebody/something in space or time    The beach is a mile -----.Christmas is still months -----.	away      далеко    The beach is a mile away.Christmas is still months away.       Synonims
группа     [countable + singular or plural verb]  a small group of musicians who play popular music together, often with a singer or singers    Он не принимал хороших решений для ------, и ----- решила идти дальше без него».	группа    He plays drums in a band that he formed with some friends.The band is/are playing a gig in Liverpool tonight.She's a singer with a band.   Synonims
band    [countable + singular or plural verb]  a small group of musicians who play popular music together, often with a singer or singers    The ---- is/are playing a gig in Liverpool tonight.She's a singer with a -----.	band      группа    He plays drums in a band that he formed with some friends.The band is/are playing a gig in Liverpool tonight.She's a singer with a band.       Synonims
ломать      [intransitive, transitive]  to be damaged and separated into two or more parts, as a result of force; to damage something in this way    Все окна ------- от силы взрыва Мои часы ------	ломать    All the windows broke with the force of the blast.The bag broke under the weight of the bottles inside it.My watch has broken    Synonims
break     [intransitive, transitive]  to be damaged and separated into two or more parts, as a result of force; to damage something in this way    All the windows ------- with the force of the blast.The bag ------ under the weight of the bottles inside it.My watch has ---------	break      ломать    All the windows broke with the force of the blast.The bag broke under the weight of the bottles inside it.My watch has broken        Synonims
перерыв, перемена     [countable]  a short period of time when you stop what you are doing and rest, eat, etc. [uncountable]  a period of time between lessons at school    Мы как раз обсуждали это во время ---- .	перерыв, перемена    Come and see me at break. She was on her lunch break. a coffee/tea break Let's take a break.   Synonims rest ▪ respite ▪ time out ▪ breathing space
break   [countable]  a short period of time when you stop what you are doing and rest, eat, etc. [uncountable]  a period of time between lessons at school    Come and see me at ----. She was on her lunch ---. a coffee/tea --- Let's take a -----.	break     перерыв, перемена    Come and see me at break. She was on her lunch break. a coffee/tea break Let's take a break.       Synonims rest ▪ respite ▪ time out ▪ breathing space
скучный, скучающий     feeling tired and impatient because you have lost interest in somebody/something or because you have nothing to do    Я ужасно ----- и сказать мне особенно нечего Когда ты ------ подросток с жаждой разрушения. Потерянная рыба-лев, удивительная рыба-попугай и даже --- осьминог.	скучный, скучающий    There was a bored expression on her face.She plays the role of a bored housewife.She was rather bored with her life in a small town.A lost lion fish, a wondering parrot fish and even a bored octopus.    Synonims
bored    feeling tired and impatient because you have lost interest in somebody/something or because you have nothing to do    There was a ---expression on her face.She plays the role of a ---- housewife.She was rather ---- with her life in a small town.A lost lion fish, a wondering parrot fish and even a ----- octopus.	bored       скучный, скучающий    There was a bored expression on her face.She plays the role of a bored housewife.She was rather bored with her life in a small town.A lost lion fish, a wondering parrot fish and even a bored octopus.        Synonims
сапог, загрузка     a strong shoe that covers the foot and ankle and often the lower part of the leg     Прочный зимний ---- с быстросохнущим съемным вкладышем.	сапог, загрузка      A durable winter boot with a fast-drying removable felt lining. She wore black knee-high boots    Synonims
boot   a strong shoe that covers the foot and ankle and often the lower part of the leg       A durable winter ---- with a fast-drying removable felt lining. She wore black knee-high -----	boot     сапог, загрузка      A durable winter boot with a fast-drying removable felt lining. She wore black knee-high boots        Synonims
карьера     the series of jobs that a person has in a particular area of work, usually involving more responsibility as time passes    У меня была потрясающая -----, где не было недостатка результатов. А она своим поступком все разрушила, в том числе и его ------. Дело в том, что Жульен всегда на первое место ставил свою ----- .	карьера    She has been concentrating on her career.a change of careerThat will be a good career move (= something that will help your career).We wish our graduates every success in whatever career path they have chosen   Synonims employment ▪ work ▪ profession ▪ occupation ▪ trade
career   the series of jobs that a person has in a particular area of work, usually involving more responsibility as time passes    She has been concentrating on her ---.a change of ----That will be a good ----- move (= something that will help your -----).We wish our graduates every success in whatever ------ path they have chosen	career     карьера    She has been concentrating on her career.a change of careerThat will be a good career move (= something that will help your career).We wish our graduates every success in whatever career path they have chosen       Synonims employment ▪ work ▪ profession ▪ occupation ▪ trade
век, столетие       a period of 100 years      Давайте посмотрим, что нам предлагает двадцать первый ---- в качестве вариантов инвестирования. Двадцать первый --- можно охарактеризовать как --- перемен.  19-й --- был ----- империй, 20-й ---- был ---- национальных государств.	век, столетие    A century ago, Valparaiso was the country's main port.He was born more than a century after the death of Confucius.They have lived there for centuries.Their techniques have evolved over the centuries.Those stories have been told again and again through the centuries.   Synonims
century     a period of 100 years     A ----- ago, Valparaiso was the country's main port.He was born more than a ------ after the death of Confucius.They have lived there for ------.Their techniques have evolved over the -----.Those stories have been told again and again through the ----.	century     век, столетие    A century ago, Valparaiso was the country's main port.He was born more than a century after the death of Confucius.They have lived there for centuries.Their techniques have evolved over the centuries.Those stories have been told again and again through the centuries.       Synonims
изменять, менять     [intransitive] to become different     Всякое ---- есть ------ чего-то,------ предполагает что-то, что изменяется.  А любое------- может привести к коренным ---------. --------- в обществе начинаются с ------- в самом человеке.	изменять, менять    Rick hasn't changed. He looks exactly the same as he did at school.We examined changing attitudes towards education.The company failed to adapt to changing circumstances.Things have changed dramatically since then.Her life changed completely when she won the lottery. change with something My attitude to life has changed with age.   Synonims
change   [intransitive] to become different    Rick hasn't ------. He looks exactly the same as he did at school.We examined -------attitudes towards education.The company failed to adapt to ----------- circumstances.Things have --------- dramatically since then.Her life ------------ completely when she won the lottery.change with something My attitude to life has ----------- with age	change     изменять, менять    Rick hasn't changed. He looks exactly the same as he did at school.We examined changing attitudes towards education.The company failed to adapt to changing circumstances.Things have changed dramatically since then.Her life changed completely when she won the lottery. change with something My attitude to life has changed with age.       Synonims
изменение, сдача     [countable, uncountable] the act or result of something becoming different  [uncountable] the money that you get back when you have paid for something giving more money than the amount it costs    Но любая трансформация предполагает ------------, а люди не любят  --------. Это, на первый взгляд, незначительное  ----------- формулировки несло в себе революционную ------ идей. Одностороннее ------------ условий брачного договора не допускается. Оставьте ----- себе	изменение, сдача    We're hoping for a change in the weather.There was no change in the patient's condition overnight.I need to make some major changes in my life.Don't forget your change!That's 40p change.The ticket machine gives change.   Synonims
change   [countable, uncountable] the act or result of something becoming different  [uncountable] the money that you get back when you have paid for something giving more money than the amount it costs    We're hoping for a ----- in the weather.There was no ------- in the patient's condition overnight.I need to make some major ------ in my life. Don't forget your ------!That's 40p ------.The ticket machine gives -------.	change     изменение, сдача    We're hoping for a change in the weather.There was no change in the patient's condition overnight.I need to make some major changes in my life.Don't forget your change!That's 40p change.The ticket machine gives change.       Synonims
график, схема     [countable] a diagram, lists of figures, etc. that shows information     Лучше всего сформировать свой ---- питания.  Она также известна как ---- предшествования, сетевой ---- и логическая диаграмма.    Этот ---- показывает, что золото отлично выполняет свою работу.	график, схема    The accompanying chart shows data for eight countries.a sales chart (= showing the level of a company’s sales)an astrological charta weather chartcomparative charts of prices of food items now and in 2012   Synonims
chart   [countable] a diagram, lists of figures, etc. that shows information    The accompanying ---- shows data for eight countries.a sales ---- (= showing the level of a company’s sales)an astrological ----a weather ----comparative ---- of prices of food items now and in 2012	chart     график, схема    The accompanying chart shows data for eight countries.a sales chart (= showing the level of a company’s sales)an astrological charta weather chartcomparative charts of prices of food items now and in 2012       Synonims
общий, распространенный       happening often; existing in large numbers or in many places [usually before noun] shared by or belonging to two or more people or by the people in a group      Мы по-прежнему будем стремиться к поиску --- ценностей, --- интересов и --- устремлений В течение предыдущих столетий смертная казнь была очень --- формой наказания в Европе.  Таким образом, возникла необходимость в центре, который бы объединял --- работу.	общий, распространенный    They share a common interest in photography.to have a common ancestor/enemythe need to cooperate to achieve a common goalJackson is a common English name.Some birds that were once a common sight are now becoming rare.a common spelling mistake   Synonims
common     happening often; existing in large numbers or in many places [usually before noun] shared by or belonging to two or more people or by the people in a group     They share a --- interest in photography.to have a ---  ancestor/enemythe need to cooperate to achieve a ---  goalJackson is a ---  English name.Some birds that were once a ---  sight are now becoming rare.a ---  spelling mistake	common     общий, распространенный    They share a common interest in photography.to have a common ancestor/enemythe need to cooperate to achieve a common goalJackson is a common English name.Some birds that were once a common sight are now becoming rare.a common spelling mistake       Synonims
сравнивать         Давайте --- цены перед покупкой. --- разных моделей поможет выбрать подходящий автомобиль.Этот сайт позволяет --- цены на различные товары.	сравнивать     Let's compare prices before making a purchase.  Comparing different models will help choose the right car.This website allows you to compare prices for various products.   Synonims
compare        Let's ---- prices before making a purchase.  ---- different models will help choose the right car.This website allows you to ---- prices for various products.	compare     сравнивать     Let's compare prices before making a purchase.  Comparing different models will help choose the right car.This website allows you to compare prices for various products.       Synonims
Полный     Having all the necessary or appropriate parts    --- пазл - это весь. После долгих усилий работа была --- завершена. Этот проект требует --- внимания к деталям.	Полный    A completed puzzle is whole.  After much effort, the task was completely  finished. This project requires complete attention to detail   Synonims Whole, entire, finished, total, comprehensive.
Complete   Having all the necessary or appropriate parts    A --- puzzle is whole.  After much effort, the task was --- finished.  This project requires --- attention to detail	Complete     Полный    A completed puzzle is whole.  After much effort, the task was completely  finished. This project requires complete attention to detail       Synonims Whole, entire, finished, total, comprehensive.
Завершить     Finish making or doing.    Мы планируем ---- проект к концу недели. Необходимо ---- все этапы исследования. Он смог успешно ---- свое обучение.	Завершить    We plan to complete the project by the end of the week.  It is necessary  to complete all stages of the research.  He was able to successfully  complete his training.   Synonims Finish, conclude, accomplish, achieve, attain.
Complete    Finish making or doing.    We plan to ---- the project by the end of the week. It is necessary to ---- all stages of the research. He was able to successfully ----  his training.	Complete      Завершить    We plan to complete the project by the end of the week.  It is necessary  to complete all stages of the research.  He was able to successfully  complete his training.       Synonims Finish, conclude, accomplish, achieve, attain.
Разговор, общение      A talk, especially an informal one, between two or more people, in which news and ideas are exchanged.    Вчера у нас был долгий и интересный ---. Ведение конструктивного --- способствует решению проблем. --- с друзьями всегда приносит радость	Разговор, общение     Yesterday we had a long and interesting conversation.  Engaging in  constructive conversation helps solve problems.  Conversing with friends  always brings joy.   Synonims Discussion, talk, chat, dialogue, discourse.
Conversation    A talk, especially an informal one, between two or more people, in which news and ideas are exchanged.    Yesterday we had a long and interesting ----. Engaging in constructive ---- helps solve problems. ---- with friends always brings joy.	Conversation      Разговор, общение     Yesterday we had a long and interesting conversation.  Engaging in  constructive conversation helps solve problems.  Conversing with friends  always brings joy.       Synonims Discussion, talk, chat, dialogue, discourse.
Правильный     Free from error; in accordance with fact or truth.    Пожалуйста, предоставьте --- ответ на вопрос.  ---информация важна для принятия решений.  Сделайте --- настройки перед использованием программы.	Правильный    Please provide the correct answer to the question.  Accurate information  is crucial for decision-making.  Make the correct settings before using  the program.   Synonims Accurate, right, true, exact, proper.
Correct    Free from error; in accordance with fact or truth.    Please provide the --- answer to the question. --- information is crucial for decision-making.  Make the --- settings before using the program.	Correct      Правильный    Please provide the correct answer to the question.  Accurate information  is crucial for decision-making.  Make the correct settings before using  the program.       Synonims Accurate, right, true, exact, proper.
Исправить     Put right (an error or fault).    Нам нужно ---  эту орфографическую ошибку. ---  свои действия, чтобы избежать недоразумений. Он всегда готов ---  свои ошибки.	Исправить    We need to correct this spelling mistake.  Correct your actions to avoid  misunderstandings.  He is always ready to correct his mistakes.   Synonims Amend, rectify, fix, revise, adjust
Correct    Put right (an error or fault).    We need to --- this spelling mistake. ---  your actions to avoid misunderstandings. He is always ready to ---  his mistakes.	Correct      Исправить    We need to correct this spelling mistake.  Correct your actions to avoid  misunderstandings.  He is always ready to correct his mistakes.       Synonims Amend, rectify, fix, revise, adjust
Курс     The route or direction followed by a ship, aircraft, road, or river.    ---- этого корабля направлен на север. Изучение нового предмета - это интересный ----. Этот ---- включает в себя разнообразные учебные материалы.	Курс    The course of this ship is heading north.  Studying a new subject is an  interesting path.  This course includes diverse learning materials.   Synonims Path, route, trajectory, track, way.
Course    The route or direction followed by a ship, aircraft, road, or river.    The  ---- of this ship is heading north. Studying a new subject is an interesting ----. This ---- includes diverse learning materials.	Course      Курс    The course of this ship is heading north.  Studying a new subject is an  interesting path.  This course includes diverse learning materials.       Synonims Path, route, trajectory, track, way.
Культура     The ideas, customs, and social behavior of a particular people or society.    ---  страны влияет на менталитет ее граждан. Познание ---  разных стран расширяет горизонты. ---  наследие играет важную роль в формировании личности	Культура    The culture of a country influences the mentality of its citizens.   Exploring the culture of different countries broadens horizons.  Cultural  heritage plays a crucial role in shaping identity.   Synonims Civilization, society, way of life, lifestyle, tradition.
Culture    The ideas, customs, and social behavior of a particular people or society.    The ---  of a country influences the mentality of its citizens. Exploring the ---  of different countries broadens horizons. --- heritage plays a crucial role in shaping identity.	Culture      Культура    The culture of a country influences the mentality of its citizens.   Exploring the culture of different countries broadens horizons.  Cultural  heritage plays a crucial role in shaping identity.       Synonims Civilization, society, way of life, lifestyle, tradition.
Описывать     Give a detailed account in words.    Попробуйте ---  свой любимый фильм. Автор живо ---  обстановку в романе. Художник умело ---  свои впечатления в картинах.	Описывать    Try to describe your favorite movie.  The author vividly describes the  setting in the novel.  The artist skillfully portrays his impressions in  paintings   Synonims Portray, represent, narrate, depict, delineate.
Describe    Give a detailed account in words.    Try to --- your favorite movie. The author vividly ---  the setting in the novel. The artist skillfully ---  his impressions in paintings	Describe      Описывать    Try to describe your favorite movie.  The author vividly describes the  setting in the novel.  The artist skillfully portrays his impressions in  paintings       Synonims Portray, represent, narrate, depict, delineate.
Взволнованный     Very enthusiastic and eager.    Вчера я был --- перед интересным событием. Он с восторгом рассказывал о своем --- путешествии. Маленькие дети всегда --- на Рождество.	Взволнованный    Yesterday, I was excited before the exciting event. He enthusiastically talked about his thrilling journey. Little children are always excited about Christmas.   Synonims Enthusiastic, eager, thrilled
Excited    Very enthusiastic and eager.    Yesterday, I was excited before the --- event. He enthusiastically talked about his --- journey. Little children are always --- about Christmas.	Excited      Взволнованный    Yesterday, I was excited before the exciting event. He enthusiastically talked about his thrilling journey. Little children are always excited about Christmas.       Synonims Enthusiastic, eager, thrilled
Увлекательный     Producing great interest or excitement.    Книга была настолько ----, что я не мог оторваться. ---- фильм оставил яркое впечатление. Путешествие в неизведанные места всегда приносит ---- впечатления.	Увлекательный    The book was so exciting that I couldn't put it down. An exciting movie left a vivid impression. Traveling to unexplored places always brings exciting experiences.   Synonims Thrilling, stimulating, captivating
Exciting    Producing great interest or excitement.    The book was so ---- that I couldn't put it down. An ---- movie left a vivid impression. Traveling to unexplored places always brings ---- experiences.	Exciting      Увлекательный    The book was so exciting that I couldn't put it down. An exciting movie left a vivid impression. Traveling to unexplored places always brings exciting experiences.       Synonims Thrilling, stimulating, captivating
Дополнительный     Added to what is normal or usual    ---  усилия приведут к большему успеху. Это было что-то --- , что я добавил к подарку. Она всегда приносит что-то ---  к обеду.	Дополнительный    Extra efforts will lead to greater success. It was something extra that I added to the gift. She always brings something extra to lunch.   Synonims Additional, supplementary, surplus
Extra    Added to what is normal or usual    ---  efforts will lead to greater success. It was something ---  that I added to the gift. She always brings something --- to lunch.	Extra      Дополнительный    Extra efforts will lead to greater success. It was something extra that I added to the gift. She always brings something extra to lunch.       Synonims Additional, supplementary, surplus
Наполнять     Make or become full    --- чашу водой до верха. Воздушные шарики были --- гелием. После долгой прогулки, горячий суп --- его энергией.	Наполнять    Fill the cup with water to the top. The balloons were filled with helium. After a long walk, the hot soup filled him with energy.   Synonims Load, pack, stuff
Fill    Make or become full    --- the cup with water to the top. The balloons were --- with helium. After a long walk, the hot soup --- him with energy.	Fill      Наполнять    Fill the cup with water to the top. The balloons were filled with helium. After a long walk, the hot soup filled him with energy.       Synonims Load, pack, stuff
Форма     The visible shape or configuration of something.    ---- этого здания уникальна. Они создали красивую ----в искусстве. Учитель дал задание заполнить ----.	Форма    The form of this building is unique. They created a beautiful form in art. The teacher gave an assignment to fill out the form.   Synonims Shape, structure, configuration
Form    The visible shape or configuration of something.    The ----of this building is unique. They created a beautiful ----in art. The teacher gave an assignment to fill out the ----.	Form      Форма    The form of this building is unique. They created a beautiful form in art. The teacher gave an assignment to fill out the form.       Synonims Shape, structure, configuration
