#separator:tab
#html:false
abduct	Verb	æbˈdʌkt	похищать	Abduct people – it got abducted by space aliens.
badger	Noun	ˈbæʤə	барсук	But the problem with saying something like that is that you would be talking cross– eyed badger spit.
blither	Verb		болтать вздор	You can therefore say 'What?' and 'Eh?' and even go cross-eyed and start to blither if you like without any fear of making a fool of yourself. I won't blither on too much about the job itself
clover	Noun	ˈkləʊvə	клевер	Red clover The plant was a clover.
conspire	Verb	kənˈspaɪə	сговариваться	Chapter 4 Tricia began to feel that the world was conspiring against her.
crabby	Adjective	ˈkræbɪ	раздражительный	She had just got home from New York feeling tired, crabby and paranoid,
dither	Verb	ˈdɪðə	колебаться	She then spent another hour dithering about what to wear.
dye	Verb	daɪ	красить	'They dyed it tabby, too, she says.
fitfully	Adverb	ˈfɪtfəlɪ	урывками, прерывисто	'I will.' She went to bed and dreamt fitfully of parrots and other birds.
furtively	Adverb	ˈfɜːtɪvlɪ	украдкой	I expect it's them.' 'Do you?' said Tricia, looking furtively at her watch.
gouge	Verb	gaʊʤ	выдалбливать, вырвать	'It's just that you mentioned the lawn mower was playing up and needed fixing or it might start gouging holes in the lawn.'
palaver	Noun	pəˈlɑːvə	переговоры	Or what would, after a lot of palaver and local difficulties of a geological nature, become Essex.
tabby	Adjective	ˈtæbɪ	полосатый	Tabby kitten 'They dyed it tabby, too, she says.
abstruse	Word	əbˈstruːs	глубокомысленный, заунывный	, right ascensions and some of the more abstruse areas of three-dimensional trigonometry.
aggrieve	Verb	əˈgriːv	огорчать	She seemed to be slightly anxious about something rather than aggrieved or irate.
angst	Noun	æŋst	тоска	Existential angst Tricia had just been to see Woody Allen's new movie which was all about the angst of being neurotic in New York.
bridgework	Noun	ˈbrɪʤwɜːk	мост, протезирование	The hair, the skin tone and the bridgework would have to be up to American network standards
cuisine	Noun	kwɪˈziːn	кухня	It was a good retail move, a good cuisine move, not a good taxi move or a great quality of pavement move, but definitely a career move that ranked amongst the highest and the best.
dormant	Word	ˈdɔːmənt	спящий, неактивный	Dormant account Within a few millionths of a second virtual circuits that had lain dormant, some for years, some for centuries, were flaring into life throughout the ship.
dotty	Noun	ˈdɒtɪ	тронутый, сумасшедший	She was obviously going dotty.
drake	Word		селезень	In astrology the rules happen to be about stars and planets, but they could be about ducks and drakes for all the difference it would make.
fairground	Word	ˈfeəgraʊnd	ярмарочная площадь	Her hair felt as if she,d bought it at a fairground on a stick.
feelers	Word		щупальца	She'd put out feelers, left messages, but so far none had been returned.
fetid	Adjective	ˈfiːtɪd	зловонный	She walked out of the fetid, goat-frying air and into the blessed cool of the lobby.
flummoxe	Verb	ˈfləməkst	сбивать с толку	This completely flummoxed her.
flustered	Participle	ˈflʌstəd	взволнованный	Oh good heavens yes,' said Tricia, slightly flustered.
fraternising	Word		братающийся	She had a very strict cut-off point as far as fraternising with the Christians was concerned.
gainsaid	Word		возражать	further– more, would not be gainsaid by anybody other than the ship's Chief Strategic Officer.
galling	Adjective	ˈgɔːlɪŋ	раздражающий	This was, for them, particularly galling because normally 'reluctantly letting someone go' was an expression that had its boot on quite another foot.
grime	Noun	graɪm	грязь, глубоко въевшаяся грязь	Road grime The fine cotton of her blouse was sticking like grime to her skin.
hogwash	Noun	ˈhɒgwɒʃ	чушь, вздор	Wouldn't now perhaps be a good time to own up that it was all just a load of hogwash 
honk	Word	hɒŋk	сигналить, кричать	A lot of the inhabitants of New York will honk on mightily about the pleasures of spring, 
interrogation	Noun	ɪnterəˈgeɪʃn	допрос, дознание	Police interrogation, Video recording of interrogations, Interrogation signal No amount of interrogation could determine what it was that had happened.
intestine	Noun	ɪnˈtestɪn	кишка	burrowing around in the lower intestine of a rat for the sheer unadulterated hell of it, life will always find a way of hanging on in somewhere.
irate	Adverb	aɪˈreɪt	разгневанный	She seemed to be slightly anxious about something rather than aggrieved or irate.
lurk	noun	lɜːk	скрытность	There were better planets nearer in, but the ship's Strateej-O-Mat was obviously locked into Lurk mode and chose the most distant and unobtrusive planet
notion	Noun	nəʊʃn	идея, мнение	Surely the notion that great lumps of rock whirling in space knew something about your day that you didn't . Surely the notion that great lumps of rock whirling in space knew something about your day that you 
onslaught	Noun	ˈɒnslɔːt	нападение, бешеная атака	Military onslaught, Furious onslaught. She was just starting to recover from the initial onslaught, 
pavement	Noun	ˈpeɪvmənt	тротуар, брусчатка	Brick pavement It was a good retail move, a good cuisine move, not a good taxi move or a great quality of pavement move, but definitely a career move that ranked amongst the highest and the best.. Granite pavement
pretext	Noun	ˈpriːtekst	отговорка, зацепка	Plausible pretext, Formal pretext. but she'd found a story, found a pretext, kept very quiet about anything ulterior, and they'd stumped up for the trip.
pushover	Noun	ˈpʊʃəʊvə	слабый противник, слабак	He got a bit impatient, but I wasn't gong to be a complete pushover just because he said he was from another planet.
reluctantly	Adverb	rɪˈlʌktəntlɪ	неохотно	Somewhat reluctantly This was, for them, particularly galling because normally 'reluctantly letting someone go' was an expression that had its boot on quite another foot.
sheer	Noun	ʃɪə	абсолютный, явный	Sheer ignorance, Sheer hell. Sheer hypocrisy burrowing around in the lower intestine of a rat for the sheer unadulterated hell of it, life will always find a way of hanging on in somewhere.
sieve	Participle		просеять	Teams of NBS lawyers had sieved through her contract to see if these constituted legitimate grounds, but in the end, reluc– tantly, they had to let her go.
snuck	Verb	snʌk	пробраться	The last time anybody made a list of the top hundred character attributes of New Yorkers, common sense snuck in at number 79.
stab	Noun	stæb	попытка	for Tricia, her second stab at a role in life.
stir	Verb	stɜː	мешать	Stirred solution 'Thank you,' said Tricia, stirring it sharply.
tantalisingly	Adverb		дразняще	the imagined job she was after was only shimmering tantalisingly on an unreachable horizon.
tatters	Noun	ˈtætəz	ветошь	They quickly established that the ship's memory, all the way back to its central mission module, was in tatters.
tough	Verb	təf	выдерживать	to tough it up She was just going to have to tough it out with Gail Andrews.
ulterior	Word	ʌlˈtɪərɪə	скрытый, потусторонний	, but she'd found a story, found a pretext, kept very quiet about anything ulterior, and they'd stumped up for the trip.
unadulterated	Adjective	ʌnəˈdʌltəreɪtɪd	чистейший, неподдельный	sheer unadulterated hell of it, life will always find a way of hanging on in somewhere.
unobtrusive	Adjective	ʌnəbˈtruːsɪv	ненавязчивый, скромный	Unobtrusive way There were better planets nearer in, but the ship's Strateej-O-Mat was obviously locked into Lurk mode and chose the most distant and unobtrusive planet
void	Noun	vɔɪd	пустота, вакуум	Void volume They unpacked the backup central mission module from its storage housing, carried it out of the storage chamber, fell out of the ship and went spinning off into the void.. Spiritual void
whip	Verb	wɪp	взбивать	Whipped egg from which flavour of cream whip to have on which day of the week, to whether or not to bomb Damascus.
avert	Verb	əˈvɜːt	предотвращать	Avert war, Avert disaster
circumvent	Verb	sɜːkəmˈvent	обойти, перехитрить	Circumvent the law By the time they eventually arrived, other forms of travel had been discovered which made use of hyperspace to circumvent the speed of light
deter	Verb	dɪˈtɜː	помешать, удерживать	Deter theft This didn't, of course, deter their crews from wanting to fight the battles anyway.
drone	Word		мычать	“I’m all spare parts,” he droned.
errand	Noun	ˈerənd	поручение	Run errands
misshapen	Word	mɪsˈʃeɪpən	уродливый	Misshapen bodies He scraped a knee along pathetically in the dust, an then tried to twist himself up on his misshapen elbows.
muddle	Verb	mʌdl	путать	The history of the Galaxy has got a little muddled, for a number of reasons: partly because those who are trying to keep track 
pebbles	Noun	peblz	галька	cufflinks that had set in them little polished pebbles which had been picked up from the Quentulus Quazgar Mountains, 
rampage	Word	ræmˈpeɪʤ	буйство, волнение	But astoundingly, the fearsome invaders who, like most warlike races were only on the rampage because they couldn’t cope with things at home, 
rattle	Word	rætl	грохот, дребезжание	Death rattle. Rattle of wheels he asked in a kind of hollow rattle.
acrid	Adjective	ˈækrɪd	резкий, едкий	Acrid odor. Acrid smell Acrid smoke was drifting up from one end so he walked towards the other.
airbrush	Noun	ˈeəbrʌʃ	аэрограф	
bawl	Verb		вопеть	Ford Prefect grabbed his megaphone from out of the taxi and started bawling at the crowd through it.
demure	Verb		возражать	and when they demurred, sold them a couple of Final Message sunhats 
devout	Adjective	dɪˈvaʊt	благочестивый, религиозный	Devout christian, Devout catholic, Devout muslim “The scooters,” said the little lady who was serving at an ice cream bar, “are not for the devout.”. Devout jew
fudge	Noun	fʌʤ	помадка	
lip	Word	lɪp	выступ	The resulting seconds of utter confusion allowed them to get the supermarket trolley to the edge of the ramp, and to haul it up on to the lip of it.
obedience	Noun	əˈbiːdɪəns	послушание	The lights winked briefly, the ramp paused in its ascent, and then in obedience to the signals from the Thumb
perspex	Noun	ˈpɜːspeks	плексиглас	He came to an observation monitor let into the wall behind a plate of toughened but still badly scratched perspex.
reprieve	Noun	rɪˈpriːv	отсрочка, помилование	Temporary reprieve Hungry for new excitement, delighted at this sudden reprieve from disappointment, the crowd enthusiastically fell back and started to open up.
flaw	Word		недостатки	“In other words – and this is the rock solid principle on which the whole of the Corporation’s Galaxy-wide success is founded – their fundamental design flaws are completely hidden by their superficial design flaws.”
forlornly	Adverb	fəˈlɔːnlɪ	сиротливо	
lucidity	Noun	luːˈsɪdɪtɪ	ясность	Lucidity of mind
obtuse	Adjective	əbˈtjuːs	тупой	“So,” said Arthur, hoping he wasn’t sounding ridiculously obtuse, “why don’t people get rid of the lizards?”
placid	Adjective	ˈplæsɪd	безмятежный	Placid face, Placid lake A couple of minutes later, wearing his very placid face, Arthur followed him.
recklessly	Adverb	ˈrekləslɪ	опрометчиво	He hurled himself recklessly at a chair and broke it.
riots	Noun	ˈraɪəts	массовые беспорядки	By an extraordinary coincidence, the following day there were two reports in the paper, one concerning the most astonishing incidents with a flying saucer, and the other about a series of unseemly riots in pubs.
rummage	Word	ˈrʌmɪʤɪŋ	досмотр, копаться	I’ve got a little list of questions here,” he went on, rummaging awkwardly in an inner pocket, “perhaps you could get him, it, whatever you call him, to run through them quickly.”
solemnly	Adverb	ˈsɒləmli	торжественно	“I see,” said Ford, solemnly, and put the two items back down, one on top of the other, but that didn’t seem to balance properly, so he put the other on top of the one and that seemed to work.
stumble	Participle		оступиться	He stumbled determinedly back into the sitting room, where he seemed to carry on talking to himself, tripping over the furniture and making beep beep noises.
superficial	Adjective	sjuːpəˈfɪʃəl	поверхностный	Superficial water, Superficial layer of skin, Superficial wound, Superficial resemblance  – their fundamental design flaws are completely hidden by their superficial design flaws.”
unseemly	Adjective	ʌnˈsiːmlɪ	неподобающий	Unseemly behaviour By an extraordinary coincidence, the following day there were two reports in the paper, one concerning the most astonishing incidents with a flying saucer, and the other about a series of unseemly riots in pubs.
asylum	Noun	əˈsaɪləm	убежище, психушка	Right to asylum “Ah yes,” he said, “that’s to do with the day I finally realized that the world had gone totally mad and built the Asylum to put it in, poor thing, and hoped it would get better.”
clumsy	Adjective	ˈklʌmzɪ	неуклюжий	Clumsy attempt, Clumsy move Wonko is what my mother called me when I was a kid and clumsy and knocked things over, and sane is what I am, and how,” he added, with one of his smiles that made you feel, “Oh.
concession	Text	kənˈseʃn	уступка, льгота	Mutual concession, Commercial concession. Tax concession They say they run a concession stand by the message.
dumbly	Adverb	ˈdʌmlɪ	молча, тупо	They both shook their heads, again slowly, again dumbly.
fathomless	Adjective	ˈfæðəmlɪs	бездонный, непостижимый	Fathomless depths And then the sound of long, heavy, perfectly grey bodies rolling away into an unknown fathomless deep, quietly giggling.
fervently	Adverb	ˈfɜːvəntlɪ	горячо, с жаром	He hoped, as he had hoped continually and fervently since the time they had 
gibber	Verb	ˈʤɪbə	невнятно бормотать	He gazed out at the Pacific again, as if daring it to rave and gibber at him, but it lay there calmly and played with the sandpipers.
hermit	Noun	ˈhɜːmɪt	отшельник	Holy hermit They are the words that finally turned me into the hermit I have now become.
nag	Verb	næg	пилить, изводить	furthest recesses of his memory, where he hoped it would cease to nag at him.
plaque	Noun	plæk	доска	Memorial plaque said Fenchurch, pointing, rather puzzled, at a blue plaque with some instructions written on it.
rebuking	Verb	rɪˈbjuːkɪŋ	упрекать	For a moment he thought she was trying to get him excited, then he realized that she was rebuking him.
sane	Noun	seɪn	здравомыслящий, нормальный	Sane people, Sane way “Wonko the Sane.”. Sane man, Sane person
surge	Noun	sɜːʤ	всплеск, пульсация	Surge of interest, Pressure surge A fugue of voices now, clamouring explanations, of a disaster unavertable, a world to be destroyed, a surge of helplessness, a spasm of despair, a dying fall, again the break of words.. Power surge
surmise	Noun	səˈmaɪz	предположение, подозревать	When he sat in his deckchair gazing at the Pacific, not so much with any kind of wild surmise any longer as with a peaceful deep dejection, it 
terrain	Noun	təˈreɪn	местность, территория	Mountainous terrain, Undulating terrain, Digital terrain model. Mountain terrain
tracery	Text	ˈtreɪsərɪ	узор	They could see quite clearly in the fine tracery of its etchwork the words “So Long, and Thanks For All The Fish.”
unavertable	Adjective		неотвратимый	A fugue of voices now, clamouring explanations, of a disaster unavertable, a world to be destroyed, a surge of helplessness, a spasm of despair, a dying fall, again the break of words.
wheatgerm	Text		ростки пшеницы	“My wife kept wheatgerm in ours,” resumed Wonko, with some new tone in his voice, “until last night…”
avalanche	Text	ˈævəlɑːnʃ	лавина	Snow avalanche The bits which did mean anything were often so wonderfully buried that no one could ever  spot  them  slipping  past  in  the  avalanche  of  nonsense.
blitz	Noun	blɪts	бомбежка	vicinity, like butterflies in the Blitz.
clawing	Adverb	ˈklɔːɪŋ	хватание	“A sw—” Her hand caught his, and in a sudden second her weight caught it, too, and stunningly, she was gone, tumbling beneath him, clawing wildly at nothing.
contemplate	Text	ˈkɒntəmpleɪt	созерцать	 from another alien galaxy at a distance too hideous to contemplate, “what is he,  man  or  mouse?
crumple	Verb	krʌmpld	сминать	He went up the stairs, all  fifteen  of  them,  opened  the  door,  went  into  his  room,  took  off  his shoes and socks and then all the rest of his clothes one by one and left them in a neatly crumpled heap on the floor.
fringe	Noun		край	,  not  the strangely colored fields of Krikkit on the remote fringes of the Galaxy.
havoc	Noun	ˈhævək	опустошение, разрушение	Terrible havoc. The two fragments from Marks and Spencer which, as Fenchurch rose now  into  the  misty  body  of  the  clouds,  Arthur  removed  very,  very slowly, which is the only way it’s possible to do it when you’re flying and also not using your hands, went on to create considerable havoc in the morning in, respectively, counting from top to bottom, Isleworth and Richmond.
paucity	Noun	ˈpɔːsɪtɪ	нехватка	They felt, even Fenchurch, now protected from the elements only by a couple of fragments from Marks and Spencer, that if they were not going to let the force of gravity bother them, then mere cold or paucity of atmosphere could go and whistle.
plummet	Text		резко упали	They plummeted because this was London and you really couldn’t do this sort of thing here.
prosthetic	Adjective	prɒsˈθetɪk	протезный	“We thrive on it, my old prosthetic limb, we thrive on it.
replete	Adjective	rɪˈpliːt	переполненный, сытый	 a Fuolornis Fire Dragon, had one flown past, replete with pizza, to flap its wings and cough a little.
tedious	Adjective	ˈtiːdɪəs	утомительный	Tedious job, Tedious work, Tedious process And  the  reasons  for  this  are  obvious:  editing,  selection,  the  need  to balance that which is interesting with that which is relevant and cut out all the tedious happenstance.
tureen	Noun	tjʊˈriːn	супница	“Arthur,  my  old  soup  spoon,  my  old  silver  tureen,  how  particularly stunning to hear from you!
vicinity	Pronoun	vɪˈsɪnɪtɪ	окрестность, около	Immediate vicinity, Close vicinity what Arthur and Fenchurch were doing in its close vicinity, like butterflies in the Blitz.
decrepit	Text	dɪˈkrepɪt	дряхлый, ветхий	Decrepit old man She  fixed  her  eyes  very,  very  firmly  on  the  gutter  of  the  roof  of  the decrepit  warehouse  opposite   . Decrepit building
obscurity	Noun	əbˈskjʊərɪtɪ	безвестность, забвение	Total obscurity. He was therefore safely shrouded in a blanket of dark obscurity.
silhouett	Noun		силуэт	He  slowly,  very,  very  slowly  lifted  his  head  to  Fenchurch,  who  was standing  in  silent  breathless  amazement,  silhouetted  in  her  upstairs doorway.
tarmac	Text	ˈtɑːmæk	асфальт, асфальтовый	Ten or fifteen feet below him was the hard tarmac and a few yards off to the right the yellow street lights of Upper Street.. Tarmac road
